Since ancient times,
humans have wanted to feel close to God.
This is a noble desire.
The Bible says that if we “seek God,”
we can “really find him”
and “draw close” to him.
Yet, God is invisible.
So how can we feel close
to a God whom we cannot see?
Would it help
if we venerated physical objects
as a means to feel closer to God?
Some people use statues in their worship.
Others venerate icons
and other religious images
as part of their worship.
But is it possible that those
who try to get closer to God in this way
are actually drawing farther away from him?
Consider what the Bible says
happened when the ancient Israelites
made a statue of a calf
and tried to use it to worship God
and they called it “a festival to Jehovah,”
the God of the Bible.
Did God accept this kind of worship?
No.
He said that he was not pleased
with what they had done.
Just think:
Instead of helping them to get closer to God,
this object actually pushed them away.
In fact, contrary to ancient rulers
who were often viewed as gods
and had images of themselves made,
the “great King over all”
—Jehovah God—
told his people not to create
or use images for worship.
He said:
“You must not make
for yourself a carved image . . .
“You must not bow down to them . . .
I . . . am a God
who requires exclusive devotion.”
Centuries later, the same command
applied to Jesus’ followers.
The apostle John
wrote to early Christians, saying:
“Guard yourselves from idols.”
God explains why his worship
should always be free of images:
“I give my glory to no one else,
nor my praise to graven images.”
He invites people
to draw close to him personally
and to pray to him directly
without the use of images.
Is it really wrong to use images,
idols, or icons
merely as aids in our worship?
How can we feel close to God
if we cannot see him?
To learn more,
search for these topics at jw.org
or fill out the online request
for one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
to visit at a time
and place convenient for you.